Wicca For Beginners A Simple Guide to Understanding the Basics of Wicca and the Magical Properties of Herbs, Crystals and Essential Oils. Start Practicing Wicca and Follow the Modern Witchcraft. Justine J. Scott © Copyright 2019 -Justine J. Scott -All rights reserved The content contained within this book may not be reproduced, duplicated or transmitted without direct written permission from the author or the publisher. Under no circumstances will any blame or legal responsibility be held against the publisher, or author, for any damages, reparation, or monetary loss due to the information contained within this book. Either directly or indirectly. Legal Notice: This book is copyright protected. This book is only for personal use. You cannot amend, distribute, sell, use, quote or paraphrase any part, or the content within this book, without the consent of the author or publisher. Disclaimer Notice: Please note the information contained within this document is for educational and entertainment purposes only. All effort has been executed to present accurate, up to date, and reliable, complete information. No warranties of any kind are declared or implied. Readers acknowledge that the author is not engaging in the rendering of legal, financial, medical or professional advice. The content within this book has been derived from various sources. Please consult a licensed professional before attempting any techniques outlined in this book. By reading this document, the reader agrees that under no circumstances is the author responsible for any losses, direct or indirect, which are incurred as a result of the use of information contained within this document, including, but not limited to, Ñ errors, omissions, or inaccuracies. Stop! There is a gift for you! To thank you for showing interest in this book I have the pleasure of giving you an e-book on Wicca. More specifically, it is the relationship between Wicca and Sex and how the Wiccan live the relationship of a couple. Download it for free by clicking here! Download it for free by clicking here! 