CONTENTS Introduction Chapter 1: So, What is Wicca? The Basics of Wicca But What About the Magic? The Myths of wicca, Debunked! Wiccans Can hurt others with Spells! Witches are Evil! Wiccan isn’t a Real Religion They only Worship the Devil! They Sacrifice Animals! They Have an Evil Bible It’s just a Weird Cult! Chapter 2: A history of Wicca The origination of Wicca But Who was Gerald Gardner? Wicca and Feminism The Original Beliefs Today’s Wicca: No, it isn’t Harry Potter The Beliefs Today’s Wiccans Have Chapter 3: Wiccan Philosophy The Philosophy on Nature, and God itself On Nature The Two Main Gods On Magic The Afterlife Morality Five Elements Chapter 4 -Altars and Rituals: What they are, and How to Set them Up About the altar and importance Things to keep in mind about your altar Tools of Altars Tips to setting it up Rituals The important wiccan rituals A basic wiccan ritual to try Chapter 5: The Wiccan Relationships The relationship between male and female Wicca and the Gender Revolution Wiccan relationship with nature and how to practice it Nature and Not Harming It How to apply This Chapter 6: Understanding Seasonal Cycles What are wiccan seasonal cycles How rituals play into this The different wiccan seasonal activities Chapter 7: Wiccan herbs, candles, and Crystals All about the herbs used The purpose of candles and how to use them Wiccan crystals and how they’re used Cleaning the crystals Recharging Them Good Beginner Healing Crystals Using Crystals in Wiccan Practice Chapter 8: The Essential oils of Wicca and what they are How are they Used? The Power of Scents The Best Essential Oils for Wiccans Basil Anise Cinnamon Cumin Seed Cypress Eucalyptus Lotus Myrrh Orange blossom Patchouli Rosemary Chapter 9: How to Use Modern-Day Witchcraft How to use wiccan spells in modern-day world Ways to Learn About Wicca How to practice your connection with nature in the current world The Power of Nature Rituals Meditation Give Back to the Community Chapter 10: Basic Wiccan Spells to Try Petition Magic Freezer Spell Protection Magic Tea Spell for Anxiety Full moon Compassion and Self-Love Spell Chapter 11: You Wiccan relationships with the World and Others A thinking Practice Conversing with Other Wiccans Praying as a Communication Wiccans and Other Religions Wicca Branches Contributing to the Better of the World as a Wiccan Conclusion INTRODUCTION Do you feel like you could benefit from Wicca? Wicca is oftentimes considered “modern witchcraft.” When we hear that, we probably think of Harry Potter or other popular witchcraft series. But it is a legitimate means of living, and it’s a very popular way to improve your life. Wicca isn’t just casting spells, and it actually is used for good only, and not for bad. While some people look at the modern “witch” with rolled eyes, it’s actually a legitimate religion, and it can help you. But, how do you get into it? And how can this practice of witchcraft help you? Well, you’re about to find out. Wicca is a little different from what you may think it is, and if you have an interest in it, this book will help you understand it more. In this book, I’ll give you the lowdown on a beginner’s level what wicca is, including the history behind it, the original beliefs behind it, what exactly Wicca is in our society today, the philosophy that they have in terms of God, and also how to get started on your journey into Wicca. I’ll provide the basics that you should know about this, and also some basic practices. You’ll also learn the basics of essential oils, healing crystals, herbs, and other items used in the Wiccan rituals. I’ll also tell you a little bit about what it means to practice modern Wicca, and the relationship you should have with this. You’ll have a practical understanding of Wicca by the end of this and be able to utilize it in your life. I want you to use it, and I want you to understand the beauty that is Wicca, which is why I encourage you to continue on in your journey to reading and learning about Wicca on a beginner’s level. 