But first, I want to thank you for choosing this book and I'd be really happy if you left me a quick review on Amazon. Enjoy the reading! CHAPTER 1: SO, WHAT IS WICCA? Before we continue with anything else, I want to educate you on what Wicca is on a basic level, and also dispel a few myths about Wicca that are prevalent in our society. The reason why these myths are here is due to not understanding, whether by choice, or involuntarily. But I want you to learn about Wicca, and here, we’ll tackle the basic principles of it, and why they matter. THE BASICS OF WICCA Many people believe Wicca is actually just witchcraft, but it’s not that. It’s actually a modern understanding of pre-Christian traditions and beliefs. However, some do believe there is a connection to the practices of the ancient Druids. It is oftentimes practiced individually, or in groups called covens. While Wicca does involve witchcraft, it’s actually more of a religion than anything else. However, while many religions encourage you to worship a god, Wicca has more of an Earth-focused aspect to it. The practice does date all the way back to the old shamans, hence why there is such similarities to people such as the Druids. However, it’s a little different than that. Wiccans actually honor the powers of nature, and host rituals and commit to providing earthen balances. Wicca is considered paganism, but not every Wiccan is a Pagan, and oftentimes there are many Pagans who don’t consider themselves Wiccans. Wicca is a very evolving religion, so it is changing immensely. However, most of them do have nature at the focus, and their beliefs and practices encompass nature, celebrations of the seasons, and the like. We’ll go more into the beliefs in the following chapters and sections, but that’s at the core of what it is. It’s a religion yes, but it isn’t monotheism, nor is it centralized like Catholicism or Judaism. Of course, when people hear religion, they oftentimes cringe due to the doctrines that are usually a part of modernized religion. People don’t want to be a part of organized religion in many cases, which is why they turn to Wicca. Wicca has their own set of gods, and there isn’t an official “holy book” with rules they need to follow. There isn’t one particular way to interpret Wicca, which is pretty cool. It’s incredibly fluid, and it encourages you to follow a spiritual path that works best for you. So, in essence, you’re the creator of your own life, and you’re the one who takes the journey. There is no pastor who you need to see every week, nor is there one set of rules written by men thousands of years ago that you have to follow. It’s your own code, your own understanding, and it allows you to practice the way you want to. Of course, you can follow ancient rituals that can be practiced honoring a particular deity, and also to help benefit your life. But of course, this is all based on what you want to do, rather than what one particular scripture or code tells you to do. BUT WHAT ABOUT THE MAGIC? When we think of Wicca, we think of magic. However, not every Wiccan practices magic. But magic is essentially the intimate connection you have with the Nature energies around you, and the utilization of this people use to help improve their own lives, and the work they do to help others. The practice is called magic of course, but it’s not the magic that you know from various media. It actually is mostly done with rituals, and various tools, and it involves different tools, ingredients, and the like, such as herbs, crystals, candles, and affirmations. These are the “spells” of Wicca, but oftentimes it’s calling upon one of the deities to help with the outcome that is desired. THE MYTHS OF WICCA, DEBUNKED! Here are a few of the myths of Wicca that we hear oftentimes, and the truth behind them all. 