WICCANS CAN HURT OTHERS WITH SPELLS! That is incredibly untrue. Wiccans have one rule with their magic, and it’s one of the very few actual “codes” they have. Their magic can only be used for positive actions, and never done to others in harmful ways, whether it be on purpose or not. WITCHES ARE EVIL! Again, another myth that involves the concept that Wiccans harm others. They can’t use their magic negatively, and they encourage people to use it positively. There is a Threefold law that says if you use your magic for evil, you’ll get that back three times the power. So, Wiccans know better than to harm others, and instead, they use their magic for the good of other people. WICCAN ISN’T A REAL RELIGION It is in fact. It was actually recognized by the American government as a religion, and there are actually Wiccan holidays observed by people. There are eight different holidays Wiccans believe in, and while some of the Christian-dominated regions in the country may think otherwise, Wicca is a legitimate religion. THEY ONLY WORSHIP THE DEVIL! The common misconception that Wiccans are Satanists is prevalent. Wiccans don’t believe in the devil, and the concept of Heaven and Hell isn’t a part of their doctrine. They’ve never existed in common Wiccan practice. They also don’t have one particular almighty god, but instead have many different deities, including gods and goddesses they may acknowledge. It’s more similar to Buddhism and Hinduism when it comes to the types of deities they acknowledge. THEY SACRIFICE ANIMALS! Wiccans actually respect all living creatures, since the religion is based on nature. They do make offerings and sacrifices yes, but it’s usually inanimate objects such as fruit, flowers, and bread, and oftentimes they wish only good for animals. They aren’t allowed to make blood sacrifices, and it’s nonsense if stated otherwise. THEY HAVE AN EVIL BIBLE They don’t even have a bible. Some Wiccans might make a “Book of Shadows” which is used as a generalized spell book or compilation of spells, but that’s literally it. It’s a reference book, just like any old textbook. Some Wiccans call it a grimoire, magical diary, or a book of spells, and really, it’s just an informational text, and it does have some myths, spells, various rituals and ceremonies, prayers and affirmations, as well as the herbs and lore behind them, or even personal records they find. It’s not an evil bible. It’s a reference book. It’s not made to hurt others, it’s just there so they don’t have to write down twenty times to use a certain crystal when working on a practice. IT’S JUST A WEIRD CULT! Nope. There are obviously “weird” Wiccans just like every other religion, but for the most part, it’s incredibly individualized and personal to yourself. Again, some people can practice in covens if they want, but oftentimes it’s easier to practice alone, which is totally fine. Wicca is a legitimate religion and an interesting practice, and you learned here a little bit about it, along with the truth of Wicca, and what it really entails. CHAPTER 2: A HISTORY OF WICCA Wicca actually has a rich history that’s worth learning about. Here, I’ll take you through the historical aspects of Wicca, and why they matter. Wiccan history isn’t as old as you may think it is, although it does have ties to ancient practices, and we’ll highlight as well some of those beliefs, and the importance of them. THE ORIGINATION OF WICCA As we’ve said, it’s not an old religion. It’s actually very new. Like less than a century old. The origins of it were dated all the way back to 1954, which was when it was originally developed. It came forth in England during then, and Gerald 