Gardner was the first to bring it forth, talking about the diversity of it, and how it has many different ritualized practices. There were a couple of other prevent Wiccans at the time, such as Gardner and Doreen Valiente, who both published works on these teachings and arts of the practice. However, the core structured was varied immensely, and it grew over time, and there are many different denominations and sects of it. The type of Wicca that was practiced initially was called British Traditional Wicca, which followed the initiation elements of Gardner, and it is usually just the application of the older traditions. So, there is an old-form of Wiccan tradition, which was the type of beliefs that were purported originally. However, old Wiccans didn’t call it Wicca at all, but it had similar practices. It was later during the 1960s that the name originally came about. Some do believe it was the hidden lore that was passed during the Dark Ages when the pagans were persecuted, only to come about during modern times, which may be a theory, but it only takes from that in a very generalized sense. The influences of Wicca are older however, so there is the argument there that Wicca was one of the old religions. BUT WHO WAS GERALD GARDNER? He was a man who was originally a civil servant who became interested in folklore, anthropology, the occult, and spiritualism. He was a part of the Rosicrucians who were around in the 1930s. He met some friends at that point, and it was revealed that they were a group of witches. And from there, he was initiated in 1939 to them. He did travel a lot, and while ancient paganism was stamped out due to Christianity, it was still practiced in secret groups, and they were called a “witch cult,” which asserted that those who were surviving were actually part of these covens. Gardner met with these people, and he was convinced they were part of a pre-Christian religion, and he wanted to make sure this survived well into the 20th century, hence how this was born. Gardner founded his own little coven called Bricket Wood, and he drew inspiration from the previous covens he had heard about. He teamed up with Allister Crowley and Cecil Williamson, and from there, the core values of Wiccan were born, such as the worship of a god and goddess in your own way. But of course, they didn’t really adopt the name Wicca until almost a decade later, when it spread. There were other important figures who came about with this, including other occultists. Some do believe Gardner revived it, but there were others who played a key role in the revival of it, such as Margaret Murray, who wrote many books on it, and was a first-wave feminist who wrote about this religion all the way back in 1921. But, with the rise of feminism in the 1970s, Wicca grew in power, and we’ll dive into how this plays a part in modern society today. WICCA AND FEMINISM Feminism did play a part in Wicca becoming popular, especially during the 1970s, and this was due to women who were attracted to this, because of the female deity, but oftentimes were limited because of restrictions women had in other patriarchal religions. Wicca also became more magic-based, especially since it was a spiritual movement. Wicca still has heavy environmentalism tones to it, along with feminism, and it’s why it became one of the major religions that came about in England. There was even matriarchal lunar worship practiced in Wicca, and it was in Dianic Wicca, and a Wiccan activist even wrote a feminist Book of Shadows, and there are still popular feminist covens that grew out from it. THE ORIGINAL BELIEFS While the original beliefs weren’t wrong, it was a little bit different. The idea was for two different gods to be in place, and there was a self-designation that had more of a “witchcraft” term to it. The original Wicca was of course referred to as witchcraft, and it was less religious in terms of connotation. However, the original covens did collectively call themselves “the Wica” with only one C in it, and this was the British term that was in place. Early Wiccans followed the duo theistic Horned God of Fertility, and the Mother Goddess. With the practitioners typically thinking these were the ancient deities who were worshipped by the old hunter-gatherers you hear about in the Stone Age, and the veneration of these gods was passed down in secret all the way to present times. This was derived from Margaret Murray’s claims that she put in place about the witch-cult that was the early form of Wicca. There were only two core venerated gods at this point, the horned God, and the Mother Goddess, both of which were also a part of Gardner’s teachings, but he said that the roots were from the Stone Age, so Gardnerian Wiccan did have this at the beginning of it. However, the names were secret initially, but were later called Cernuous and Aradia, but those were later changed as well. One of the deities was considered the “prime mover” who was an entity who was too complex for humans to understand, but there was also the terms called Cosmic Logos, Supreme Cosmic Power, or the Godhead, and this deity was the one who created the undergods as well. Gardnerism Wiccan did focus a bit more on witchcraft, and while it did dismiss the sacrificing, cannibalism, orgies, and Satanism that’s oftentimes considered to be a part of “witchcraft,” there is actually a series of rituals that are there, in order to provide a framework the person can use for themselves, and this was brought into modern context as well. TODAY’S WICCA: NO, IT ISN’T HARRY POTTER Wicca wasn’t an officially recognized religion until 1986, and that came about due to a court case called Dettmer V. Landon, and the case was based off a Wiccan who was incarcerated who was refused the objects they needed for rituals, and the ruling made Wiccans entitled to the same First Amendment protection that every other religion has. In 1998, there was a Wiccan student who also got help from the ACLU after the board tried to prevent this person from wearing black jewelry and clothes, and of course since it was recognized as a religion, the view was reversed. The Indiana Civil Liberties Union back in 2004 also tried to help purport the rulings that were in place, and they fought to reverse the idea that Wiccans who were divorced couldn’t teach this religion to their children. There are Wiccans in prominent positions. Sgt. Patrick D. Stewart was the first Wiccan to serve in the military who died in combat. The family wasn’t allowed to put a pentacle on the gravestone, but there was a court case that was pushed in 2005 that was initiated to help push for the symbols to be put on Veteran’s markers. Today, it is now acceptable to do that. 